# Response to Blumenstock
Alyssa Nekritz
January 27th, 2020

The Promise: Blumenstock thinks that using phone data analaysis, governments could potentially provide humanitarian aid through easier mechanisms. He also believes that phone data can improve international development and can even start to track individuals. He aims to start using general phone data to study who gets effected the most from natural health disasters, how people respond to crises, etc. The general study of human response to crisis, how they relocate, and other human behaviors can be studied so that eventually, phone data can help track and understand human populations on a greater scale.
The Pitfalls: Blumenstock is very self-critical and he can see that phone data collection can be hard to regulate, have biased algorithms given wealth gaps, have unanticipated effects like power accumulation and targeting, and has little validation because this study would be hard to test (there hasn't been much generalizing yer since people act differently in different situations based on a litany external and internal factors).
Looking Forward: For the future, Blumenstock wants to continue to use different data sets and build off of current research in order to have stronger validation for his promise and the potential use for it. In order for that to happen, he needs a greater sample size of mobile phones used by a variety of people so that he can later customize a certain "impact score"

Other: Professor Roessler is currently doing a research project on the impact of mobile phones in Tanzania on poverty. He's looking into how mobile phones influence wealth.

How do you respond to these ideas regarding "good intent," "transparency," and the difficult "balancing act" when considering the intersection of human development with data science?

Good intent in these cases is superficial because even if the person tracking the data is only curious about how humans react, others can use that data for lethal means. If phone data teaches us how we generally respond to crises, terrorists or other hackers could infiltrate that data and use it to their advantage. I also think that transparency is a good thing, but there's a hard line there. Privacy becomes a big issue here. I care about my individual privacy, and I don't feel comfortable offering my information willy-nilly. I think people should volunteer to have companies use their data and they need to make that clear. Otherwise, companies should reach out through other means to obtain the data sample set they want. There is high risk of corruption and a strong likelihood of unanticipated problems down the road that we can't see yet. The balancing act refers to the positive and negative tight-rope that human demographers and data scientists have to walk because they are bordering on the privacy dilemma. With limited regulation about data collection, it will remain a problem for at least the next decade.
